the Israeli military says its ground
forces are now pushing deeper into Gaza
a military spokesman has just given an
update on the third night of fighting he
says tanks backed by artillery and air
strikes have killed dozens of Fighters
along northern border areas Hamas is
saying that heavy battles are taking
place let's go live to Sarah Harret
she's joining us from occupied East
Jerusalem so tell us s a little bit more
about what Israel's military spokesman
is saying he's just been speaking in the
past half an
hour yeah that's right he reconfirmed
once again that expansion in Gaza is
still underway and that in fact if
anything they've added more troops
they've added more foot soldiers uh he
said that they're ensuring that there's
strong backup from the air and sea to
protect those foot soldiers especially
and the tanks that are going in uh I I
would like to to add that yesterday when
we saw those massive flashes of light uh
in the air on the south it was something
that a lot of uh experts and including
Israelis and Palestinians had said that
they've not seen that kind those kind of
tactics before it seems to be quite
clear that the Israeli Army is using uh
uh new tactics uh new plans on how they
will tackle this they know they'll be up
against a lot of resistance by Hamas uh
Hamas knows that area very well despite
the fact that Israel has drones flying
over 247 even before this war um but the
fact is they know they are up against a
a a big fight Israel has been very
strong mil militarily from the air of
course it receives a lot of aid from the
US but this going in as foot soldiers is
another thing also to add to that
Israelis don't want to lose soldiers
they don't want a higher number of
casualties especially given that they
already had the highest number of
casualties in that October 7 attack
including soldiers Israeli soldiers that
are held captive in Gaza and he did uh
uh Danielle hagari the spokesman for the
Army did touch on that that they want to
minimize the number of deaths we know
that one was killed that was confirmed
by uh the Israeli Army this morning and
there have been injuries from today and
yesterday but it's still not clear uh
the total number they haven't released
those he did also add at the end saying
that this is going to be a very slow
process and clearly of course there's a
lot of damage and destruction if they're
going to move in by foot with those
tangs on land which is what they're
doing already they're going deeper and
deeper in certainly from the north um
they're going to need to clear all of
that to be able to get to those targets
they're saying that they are aiming for
including those underground tunnels yes
those Israeli captives are they'll be
foremost in mines won't they as there's
growing pressure on the Israeli
government secure their
release yeah we're seeing a different
rhetoric in the kind of uh statements
are being made by the Army as well as uh
the uh War cabinet including prime
minister Benjamin Netanyahu what started
off in the early days where they were
saying that you know we're going to go
in unfortunately this is war and we may
end up losing some of those uh captives
as a result that rhetoric has changed
they've been up against it from families
that are incredibly angered feeling
frustrated emotions are high where
they've been demanding answers from
their government they want to know what
the plan is moving forward and with this
ground and sea and air assault they are
really hugely concerned that their own
members family members relatives uh that
are stuck in Gaza could potentially die
Hamas has already said 50 those have
been killed in those Israeli air strikes
and that could continue because it's
still not clear to Israel despite it's
incredible intelligence that it's known
for uh in and what we've seen in the
past few years despite all of that it
seems that they still don't know uh
where those captives are we in the last
few days we'd seen uh leaflets that were
thrown from the air um to ask
Palestinians those that could help them
in any way locate them so they're really
up against the Israeli military the
foreign Ministry says that it's going to
be meeting with those uh family members
later today to keep them updated and
clear C they're trying to reassure uh
the public as well that now the captives
and getting them out and securing them
here uh is incredibly important just one
last thing to add to that is that Hamas
had said um the day before yesterday
that they are willing to immediately
release all of those captives civilians
and soldiers but only if Israel will
agree as well to release all of those
Palestinian prisoners now those
Palestinian prisoners there are more
than six th000 of those in Israeli jails
a lot of them are on what they call
administrative detention which means
that they haven't had trials they've
been held for years including miners
which does go against international
human rights um so a lot of those here
if you even throw a stone at a soldier
that could land you in jail as a
Palestinian as we speak now we're
hearing a lot of movement behind us um
it's we heard gunshots just a few
minutes ago tensions here in occupied
East Jerusalem are incredible high as
well and I'm not sure if you can hear
the sirens perhaps if the cameraman can
zoom in you'll see in the distance there
um there are Sirens there's a they
immediately responded the Israeli uh
forces we've we heard a round of several
gunshots it's still not clear as to the
situation there but there's there's been
an a general uh mood here in the
occupied territories a somber mood where
people are scared scared they're afraid
here at Al jazer we spoke to some of
those Palestinians that said they were
incredibly worried um because of the
repercussions because of the tensions
because of the situation that's
happening in Gaza and on the other side
you also have Israelis that are worried
um in case that they are made a Target
we still don't know what's happening
right behind us we did hear those
gunshots it's still clearly an unfolding
scenario but we may likely start to see
more of this happening in the coming
days as especially because Palestinians
feel that what's happening in Gaza is
having an effect the war on Gaza there
are many of those that are living here
that have relatives there they're really
concerned and as many have told us they
feel that the International Community
has turned their back on them it's been
75 years of occupation and that
occupation isn't just militarily it it
seeps into everyday life here La okay
Sarah many thanks indeed we'll let you
go and see if we can get some more
information on that situation unfolding
there in the occupied East Jerusalem
these were shots now that you can see
from Gaza and just a moment ago we saw
some tanks on the move there in uh Gaza
we have been hearing that Israel has
expanded its ground operations there you
can see the result of some of the air
strikes that have been going on for the
past 24 days now absolutely devastating
entire neighborhoods there in the Gaza
Strip there you can see that tank on the
move not many pictures coming out of
Israel's ground operations in Gaza
they're keeping it very much under wrap
saying that they of course will not
disclose any of their positions but we
are hearing more and more uh reports of
their operation expanding deeper into
the strip especially overnight let's
speak to Al's hanni Mahmud he joins us
from Kan yunes inside the Gaza Strip
that's in the southern parts of G Gaza
hary first of all what evidence are you
hearing of of Israel expanding its
ground operations deeper into the Gaza
strep yes well within the past hour or
so Israel uh surely began its second
phase of the military operation or war
on Gaza uh using tanks uh large numbers
of tank just moved from uh the southern
eastern part of Gaza
City area uh making its way and pushing
uh their way to uh the western side of
Gaza City near uh Nim Junction uh it's a
junction that connects the Gaza City and
the northern part with the central of
Gaza City on the southern part of of of
the Gaza Strip uh by doing so uh the
Israeli tanks now are are separating uh
completely uh Gaza City and the northern
part from the southern part of Gaza
which will be uh very challenging and
very difficult uh for people uh to move
particularly those who were asked to
evacuate uh at uh at earlier hours of
the night and yesterday from from the
hospital uh we learned from a source uh
that the Israeli ISU a warning that
nobody moves from uh Gaza and the from
the southern part to Gaza or from Gaza
to the southern part at this moment
because there
is military operations activities uh
going on we also learned from our source
uh that there are uh tanks also moving
uh and from the northern part of Gaza uh
making their way pushing uh into uh
further uh the the northern part of Gaza
City all the way uh to to Gaza City uh
what seems to be a a tactic by the
Israeli military uh who uh stated a few
days ago that a military operation is
still uh uh going but they were not sure
where uh when it was going to to happen
but they mentioned it was going to be a
surprise and definitely what's going on
now it's a surprise uh uh military uh uh
operation ground operation uh happening
at at the moment uh communication
network still disabled and that's why uh
we are unable to get uh most of the
updates uh from Gaza and I believe uh
Gaza uh residents whoever remained there
has been completely cut off from the
southern part uh of the Gaza City even
uh in terms of phone service or Internet
we're not getting a clear picture but
eyewitness they still believe that the
the the the S the tanks moving uh from
Eastern side to the western side of the
co G line okay and what are people there
feeling about that because they're now
being told they can't move out of the
Southern areas of Gaza as you just said
they can't speak to people in the
Northern areas of Gaza are they feeling
completely cut off and
isolated I I I we I believe this is what
is happening now being cut off
completely uh from the southern part of
Gaza we we we saw lots of worrying
relatives here at ner Hospital who who
are making uh trying to make phone calls
and send text message to family members
who remained in Gaza either in a shifa
hospital around its vicinity or in
different parts of Gaza today but
unfortunately without a a response and
and that what gives us a sense that uh
Gaza City and the northern part has been
completely cut off from the rest of the
Gaza Strip uh and and it we don't know
what is going uh to happen in the next
coming hours but there is a a a belief
that uh it's going to be in intensified
in the coming uh hours as we heard the
uh that there is an Israeli declaration
uh of a warning of people not to move
from uh the central part and the
southern part into Gaza now uh what we
expect is to a declaration that this
area is a military zone in the coming
hours uh but we're waiting for the
updates of from Gaza City okay all right
hany thanks very much well we can speak
to safwat akut our correspondent in Gaza
he joins us from near Gaza City safwat
great to speak to you first of all can
you confirm to us these reports that
we're hearing that tanks are outside the
Gaza City and they're separating it from
the southern parts of
Gaza when we can we can't confirm that
we told them perally but we from where I
am I'm like five kilometers away from uh
the area that they said the Israeli
tanks have been stationing or uh get
into uh I can see from where I am now a
p of smoke coming up from that area
which is called alaka or Nim Junction
which was one of one of the expected
places by the experts here in Gaza the
military experts that in case Israel
decided or Israeli tanks decid to get
through Gaza this what would be one of
the the the point that the tanks will be
stationing in in order to divide Gaza uh
and the north of the Gaz strip from the
rest of the Gaza Strip uh we uh but what
we can confirm that the the fighting
groups they send a statement and we
received a coupy of it that the the
severe clashes are taking place now
between the fighting groups CES and
Islamic Jihad Fighters and the Israeli
tanks s into the G
the Gaza City so by this statement we
can confirm that the there are tanks are
who are entering inside Gaza and by the
way uh they entered from the eastern
part of the Gaza City of the Gaza Strip
and according to expect they will go
straight and cut the wholeway from east
to west and then Dominate and control
the two main roads that or the two only
roads that link Gaza it's north with the
rest of the Gaza Strip which is Salah
Road and the coastal road so in case or
if the Israelis arrive or reach the
coastal line or the coastal Road by this
point or by this time they will will
completely divide the Gaza the Gaza City
and the north of the Gaza Strip with the
rest or from the rest of the Gaza Strip
so uh still people we are we have been
receiving lots of f gold from people who
could leave the Gaza City and the North
and they are ask if they it's still safe
and secure to leave the the North and
Gaza City towards the South
and to what what ex what uh impact is
that actually having or when you talk
about dividing up the Gaza Strip people
unable to move we're hearing from Hanny
that people are unable to even make
phone calls to people inside Gaza City
that Communications have been cut off
there can you confirm that for us as
well look from the first day of the war
there was a severe lack and severe drop
of the the local cellular cellular
network and internet but the people here
since they got used to these world and
these escalations they have created new
mechanism and new survival mechanisms
many people you can find they put in
their pockets like some of the Israeli
SIM cards who are very weak in Gaza but
it's still working so uh or maybe do
some roaming that we did when there were
complete cut out a few days ago so
there's always a way for the gazans to
communicate and to survive since they
are living under the sieg for more than
17 years and they have been living
living under these difficult
circumstances not for the first time or
second time so this is this under these
circumstances they have town or create a
kind of survival mechanism in terms of
even of electricity internet uh
communication and Telecommunications and
other means of course because living
under these
circumstances by the way you can find
every house a battery car battery just
to get some charge for your mobile so
this mechanism and this means of
survival you can find it almost in every
neighborhood or in every house okay
safat alute thanks very much much for
the update we'll keep talking to you uh
throughout the coming hours as we hear
more about Israel's expanded ground
operations into the Gaza Strip